- [Instructor] We're ready to begin writing
our first integration test for a controller component.
So once again another quick review
of what exactly our objectives are.
This is an integration test which means
all components are real and no mocks involved
at this stage of testing.
We want to test what happens when a real
contact management controller interacts
with a real contact management service
and when that contact management service
accesses real data access components.
So another preview on what we're going
to have to tell JUnit to do.
In a word, we want it to do everything.
So we want the JUnit environment to provide
us full servlet engine or web environment behavior,
and we want to load all types of components,
controllers, services, and our data repository components.
So let's get started.
For this exercise, we'll be testing a controller
that is located in our source test Java Tree
like all test code and I'm going to expand
our controller package where I have ready to go
a contacts management controller,
and this is an integration test.
So to read this a little easier,
I'm going to expand the window.
As you can see here, our run width
annotation is the same as before.
The Spring boot test annotation is similar.
The difference now is our web environment is no longer none.
We actually want to simulate a real web environment
with a real servlet engine running
and we're going to choose a random port
because that works fine for us for now.
But in your actual testing, you do have
the flexibility to change this to a real port
just in case you're working on an environment
where certain ports are already in use
and you want to avoid conflicts.
Just as before, we make sure we inject
in the actual controller class we plan to test.
And we're going to begin with
our Add Contact Happy Path Test
where we set up our usual customer contact
with Jenny Johnson's information.
And now what we're going to do is call
our contacts management controller
and let's just test what happens when we send in
this Jenny object that we've already setup.
And what we're simulating here is
a customer contact form being that was posted.
So imagine a form on a webpage
where the user has typed in the first name of Jenny
and the last name of Johnson.
And they've hit the submit button
and that's going to send in this form bean.
Another thing to show here is that
on our controller method, we do expect a specific outcome.
Right now it's just a simple string.
For the purposes of this simple exercise,
I'm sure you could imagine how much
more useful that would be if it were
a different type of object.
So another thing we're going to do now,
unlike before when we were using assert equals quite a bit,
we're going to show an improvement that was made
to the JUnit framework a few years ago
where instead of assert equals,
they have more expressive assertion methods.
For instance, assert that outcome is equal to.
I'm expecting a string that comes back that says success.
And now that one example completes
my controller integration test
and I want to minimize my window again
and expand my test class and right click
on the happy path method because I just want
to show what happens when we run that.
I'm certainly hoping for, ah, the JUnit green bar.
That's what I love to see.
So another thing I want to show this test class is
our first time testing a not so happy path.
So imagine this was an add contact scenario
where the user forgot to type a first name.
In our system, we consider the first name
to be required information from the user.
So, if they miss that first name,
then I'm going to expect the outcome
to be a message that says failure.
So I've done the same assertion as above,
assert that the outcome is equal to failure.
Now let's run this test and see what happens.
Ah, now this is interesting.
My failure scenario test failed.
This is an example of how running JUnit tests
and having the right kind of strategic assertions
can help inform better designed decisions.
So at this point, I would switch out
of writing JUnit code and into writing production code
because I've spotted a design flaw here.
I was expecting a failure outcome
and I didn't get one.
So let's go back over into our package explorer here
and let's look at why this may have failed.
And I have a suspicion that it's in our service component.
And look at that.
There's a new contact that comes in
and all we do is save it.
What we really want to do is at least check
for one required piece of information.
So let's say for the purposes of what we're doing,
we only require the first name.
So what I want to do is first see
if the first name is not null.
If it's not null, then I want to call
the save method on my customer contact repository.
So now that I'm checking that my first name is not null
before I do a save, I'm also designing this code
so that if the first name is null,
I just want to return a null object.
Now it may not be bullet proof,
but for this exercise it'll do.
So let's minimize this window again
and let's try running that test again
that just failed.
I expect my failure scenario to be caught
which means this test should succeed.
What I'm hoping for this time is the green bar.
So now I have two test cases that are succeeding.
And in the process, I've also shown how
a failure test case scenario is driving
you towards better design decisions
which is the whole point of writing
JUnit tests to begin with.
You want to stay in cycles of writing tests
that fail so that you can fix designs
and then come back and see those tests succeed.
So let's recap what we just accomplished.
We created a contacts management controller
integration test.
We made sure we had test coverage
on our happy path for Add Contact.
We also added a test case to check
for one particular failure scenario.
And that is the scenario of a user forgetting
to type in a first name.
After writing that test and seeing that test fail,
we then took the time to adjust a bad design decision
because of a test outcome.
Then we revisited that test to run it again
and see it succeed.
And that's exactly how we wanted this cycle to go.